Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We are going to continue our discussion on VM Native Image and how to compile our Java application to
Native Binary.
And I mentioned that the first thing that you need to learn or be really familiar with is how we actually
launch a Java application using the JDK or the tools that come.
And we say that JDK has development tools.
These are usually the compilers, the debugging tool like JDB, etc., or J or for example, Java flight
recorder GFR, which monitors the performance of your application inside the JVM.
And we said that you launch your Java application by using the Java command line tool, right?
It's an executable binary that comes with the JDK and this is the runtime.
And in the past it used to be called J or E or Java runtime environment, and now they decided to only
provide one JDK, which also includes the JRA.
Right?
In the past you could just download the Java or Jari as a smaller file, but now it's just just one
JDK and it has all the development tool and the runtime tools, right?
And we said that eventually what we want to learn is that how the JV team handles your job application.
JV team understands only the class files.
Each class declaration in your source file will be compiled to a separate class file.
Whenever JV team at runtime encounters an object of some type, it tries to find a class file that corresponds
to that.
The first time that this happens, the JVM loads the class file into memory so that it understands the
properties or the attributes of that type.
Right.
Every type in Java is a class or object, with two exceptions.
One is the primitive types like integer flow double.
These are built in types.
JVM doesn't need to look for a class file for them, and the other one is the built in arrays like int
array, double array or any object array.
Those arrays or primitive arrays in Java arrays are built in types inside the Java, which means JVM
doesn't need to search for a class file to understand what an array type is.
Right?
So primitives and array types, these are built in types.
Other types like for example, an object or whatever class you define.
These get compiled to a separate class file and JVM loads the class file into memory to understand what
the properties of this type are, what are the attributes, what are the aesthetic methods, what are
the non static methods, etc. right.
And loading the class file is only happens one during the lifetime of your application.
The very first time JVM looks at the type and sees that it doesn't understand it.
It tries to search for this a class file that is associated with that type, and that's where the importance
of the class path comes into play.
We said that.
When you interact with the terminal.
We said that there is a there is a environment variable called the path, right?
This is what your operating system and the terminal understands.
Similarly, when you launch your Java application, you can specify class path.
Class path, hyphen, hyphen, class pairs.
Or I usually prefer the shorter version hyphen CPP and this tells the JV team all the directories that
it can look into to find a particular class file.
So that's how you do it.
And it's exactly the same as the behavior of the class.
Path for the JVM is very similar to the behavior of the path environment variable for the terminal or
operating system, right.
So if I say Java, what happens behind the scenes, as I mentioned in the previous lecture, is that
the operating system starts to search in all the directories that are specified in the path and tries
to find for a look for an executable binary that has this name at the very first directory that has
an application with this name.
It just assumes that that's the case and it uses that application, right?
Same with the Java class files and we will look at it.
And in general, if you want to launch your Java application with a with a terminal from the terminal,
now obviously these days everybody uses an ID and I will show you how an ID like Eclipse handles this.
But every idea has a build system, which means the way they organize the classes and then they configure
the class path because you can launch your Java application from within your ID and ID behind the scenes,
basically configures this parameter hyphen TCP.
Basically, it tells the JVM where where are the directories that the class files are.
Right?
But then you even for your terminal, you can define a global environment variable environment variable
called the I believe class path.
Right.
This is the JVM understands.
So by default, if you define a global environment variable called the class path, then the JV team
actually also looks for this in the environment variables of the operating system.
Same with Python.
If you're familiar with Python, you can define a global environment variable for your terminal, for
your operating system called Python path.
Right?
And then when you launch Python application, it also says if it finds a global environment variable
with this name, it also adds all the directories that this has into into the Python path.
Right.
So JVM looks for a variable called class path.
You don't need to define this.
You can.
But if you define this, then you don't need to really pass this hyphen CPP at the launch.
All right.
So the idea here is that when you launch your Java application with the Java, what happens is that
obviously your application depends on the Java API, which means the JDK classes and libraries that
come by default.
Right.
With the JDK, we know that Java Lang, all the classes, all the types in the Java Lang package, they
always implicitly imported, you don't even need to to import them, which means they are very essential
part of every Java application.
And then JVM loads the all these APIs into memory before even loading the class voids that are associated
with your application before even starting the main method of your application.
And JVM sits between your Java application and operating system, right?
So every line of code in your application gets executed by the JVM.
Basically, JVM interprets that for your operating system.
And operating system is the is the thing that sits between a user and application and hardware, right?
The only way to talk to the hardware, utilize the hybrid hardware is through the operating system.
So the application talks to the JV team, right.
Or it gets executed on top of JV team.
JV team talks the operating system and an operating system handles all the hardware events.
Right.
And we started this communication between your Java application and the JV team is in the form of class
files.
So you define classes, define types, those types get compiled to classifieds.
And then when you're applying, you run your Java application.
JVM loads the class files into memory and then understands the types that you're using right now.
What we want to do, we want to transition from this behavior to a native image.
Native image means that we launch your job, we run, we write our source files, right?
Our job application.
And then there is a compiler which we call it Native Image compiler.
And then what happens here is that instead of compiling all the JDK classes, all the JDK classes and
our Java source code to class files, the compiler does a static compilation, which means it compiles
all of these into and native executable binary, right?
And then when you run that executable binary, it means you're launching your Java application.
There is no JVM in between.
Right?
So operating system directly loads that into the memory.
So basically the execution of the your application now it is in the hands of the operating system,
right?
The standard procedure is on the left side where the execution of your Java application is in the hands
of JVM and then JVM talks to the operating system.
Obviously you can see that because the JVM is an extra step here.
The execution is a little bit slower than if you directly execute your application via the operating
system.
And that's why people always say that C++ applications are obviously faster because the execution is
really in the hands of the operating system itself.
Right.
So let's head to Eclipse.
I'm going to show you how to write a Java application, a very simple one, the hello world application,
how to manually compile it through the terminal, how to run it with the JVM, with the Java tool.
And then we're going to discuss a complexities like packages and then what's the importance of the class
path?
All right.
But again, all these I'm going to show them how they work in the terminal first and then we look at
how the ID handles them.
So I've created a project in my Eclipse IDE called Java Native Image.
Right.
And I've configured this project to use Java 17, but I'm not going to use this Java project that Eclipse
manages.
I'm going to create an empty folder like test and then I'm going to open a terminal here.
All right.
So what I'm going to do, I'm going to create a basically empty Java file.
So I'm going to say, for example, chat or maybe a cool hello to a file.
Let's say hello vol dot java, right.
If I do an LZ, you see there is a helloworld java and I'm going to open it with the eclipse ID.
Right.
Eclipse text editor and I'm going to define type my class.
So let's call it a public class.
So public class.
Hello world.
Right.
In Java, every, every your everything is inside the scope of a class.
And when the Java compiler compiles this class definition, this gets compiled into a binary file which
has an extension dot class.
Right.
So it gets a compile to a binary file which which ends the name is going to be hello world dot class.
And when you launch your Java application, the JVM loads this class into memory and in order to execute.
So the entry point, the entry point to your Java application, if you are not developing a library,
right?
If you're developing a Java application, which means you want to execute your application is the main
method.
So public static, it has to be public so that JVM can always access it.
It has to be a static so that the JVM doesn't need to instantiate this class.
It doesn't need to create an object.
Main doesn't return anything in C++.
You know, that Main actually can return a zero an integer, but it's not necessarily the default nowadays.
The default behavior is that if the main executes successfully, it returns zero.
But JVM doesn't care.
That's why they decided to declare this as void.
You don't need to return zero or whatever public aesthetic void main.
And we said that there is a concept of a command line arguments and that's the string array.
Remember when you launch your application in the terminal, terminal is a text based interface.
Everything in the terminal is text, right?
You run your application, the application can get some input as text and eventually it returns something
back as text.
Even if your application returns, a number does some calculation.
The terminal in order to display on the terminal, it has to be in the format of text.
Right.
Why do we have a string arrays?
Because when you launch your job application Java, let's say eventually we will say hello world, right.
You tell you tell the operating system to launch the Java, the Java tool use this class file which
has a main method and then after that whatever comes arg one, a space, arg two, etc., right?
So you can have a comma separated list of strings and all these are going to be translated into this
string array.
So you have to add a spaces between them.
And then we're going to say system dot out, dot print line.
This is from the JDK.
That's why our application always depends on the JDK.
Hello World, right?
Hello World from Java application.
From Java application.
And some exclamation marks.
So we save this.
This text file is ready right now to the operating system.
This is just a text file, right?
It doesn't have any meaning.
So let's go back to our terminal and what we want to do.
We want to convert this text file, which is our source file into a class file so that JVM can load
it into memory and execute our application.
So the way we do it, we have to use the compiler.
So and again, what I always like to do first to see which version of Java I'm using and where is this
Java executable come from.
Remember I said that the which command it tells searches in the path environment variable to see where
the operating system can locate this executable.
Now I'm using the Oracle JDK 17.
And so my Java is Java hotspot and same with the Java Sea or Java compiler.
It comes from the JDK 17 Java Sea hyphen, hyphen version.
And as you can see, I'm using the Java 17, right?
So what we're going to do is compile this source, file A Java C, and then you give it the name of
the class HELLOWORLD Java.
It takes a little bit of time if we do a list again.
You see, now we have a hello world class.
So if I refresh here, the Helloworld class comes in and it clips when I drag it into the editor.
I've configured the eclipse to decompile the class, but you can also open it with the class file editor.
So this translates the binary contents of this class file.
Remember, the contents of this class file is binary, it's not a text.
But then you can basically look at the context, basically the contents of this using the eclipse class
file we were.
So the binaries translate into a public helloworld this is the constructor.
We know that if we don't provide any constructor, the compiler will add a default.
No argument constructor which is public that's there.
And the job all it does is it calls the Superclass constructor.
We know that the object class Java line object is the superclass of every type and the superclass of
a type has to be initialized in the constructor of the subtype.
That's why we call the constructor of the superclass.
And then we have one method main which is public static void.
It gets a static field from Java like system which is out of type print a stream and then loads a constant
string and then invokes a non static or virtual method from this print stream class which is out, right?
This out is a of type print stream and then this method is overloaded.
The print line takes this particular method, it takes a string and returns void and then eventually
we return from our main method and the Java application 10 minutes.
Right.
Successfully.
That's how this works.
So behind the scenes, the very first thing that you see that happens is that Java C adds a default
constructor.
Every class, every type has to have a constructor.
If you don't provide one, a default constructor will be provided by the Java compiler.
All right.
So back here, now that we successfully compiled or Java application, we want to run it, right?
So we use Java C to compile the application and now we want to run it.
We use the JV or Java Command, right?
And then we don't give it the source file.
We don't use the Java file, we use the class file because JVM or the Java tool Java exec only understands
the class file and you give it the class that has the main method, right?
So you may have multiple classes that have main methods and you have to tell the JVM which class is
the entry point to your Java application.
And when you do that, the JV team looks at that class file and see if there is a main method public
static void main method inside that and it tries to execute it.
So hello world.
And when you do that, you don't type the dot class, you don't do that, you only write the name.
So if I launch this, it's successfully executes and you see the terminal again, you launch your applications
through the terminal, right?
Terminal is the window between you and the operating system and every application has to be run through
the terminal, every application.
Therefore when you run it, it has a working directory.
So right now this test directory is our working directory.
And then there are ways in your Java source code to examine the working directory when you launch your
application in the job in eclipse.
Every IDE sets the working directory differently.
Right in in your eclipse IDE, you can just say run as right and then this doesn't work because I didn't
compile this with eclipse.
Eclipse.
When you say run as it tries to basically create a run configuration, eclipse has its own compiler
and it organizes the classifiers into a separate directory called Beam.
But here we didn't do that.
We put the class file exactly in the in the basically source file in the directory that had the source
file.
So Eclipse doesn't understand it.
So remember it is configured the class path and then differently they have different folder directory
hierarchy as to where they put their class files, the binary files.
Right.
And then eventually when you launch an application, the ID tells the GVM or the Java tool which class
to use as the main method that has the main method, and then how the class path is configured.
Which directories to look into when GM tries to search for a class file.
Now again, our application is giving us feedback in the format of text.
And the only that's the only thing that we do.
For example, if we do a System.out.println five, right?
Remember this five is a primitive integer in your Java.
When the Java compiler sees this, this becomes a primitive integer, right?
This is not a string type.
But then in terminal when you tell hey, put out five to the terminal, this out means output to the
system which is output to the terminal.
This five gets translated into five in the format of a string like basically five because terminal doesn't
understand primitive types, it just understands the strings right now.
Obviously, if I change something in the source code and my launch, my application, the changes are
not reflected because I have to recompile the source file.
So you have to first save it, right?
And then go back here.
And say Java Sea Helloworld Java you compile it.
The binary file or reclassified gets updated.
Now if I type a java hello world and see the five is there but again terminal.
When it gives you feedback, it's always in the format of text, which means that there is no really
difference when you run your application between these five as a integer or five as a string.
The feedback that your application gives is basically the same.
Right.
I want you to understand this very carefully.
All right.
So that's the first thing how you handle your Java applications have to commit.
This is the simplest case.
Right.
And then there are a few things that we want to explore.
The one is, what if your application becomes more complicated?
Right.
And one thing that I want to mention, that in this case, I'm not giving any parameter for hyphen,
keep the class path.
But when you don't specify this explicitly, JVM, when you launch your Java application, JVM searches
in two locations.
One is the current working directory.
So you know that I launched my Java application from within the test, right?
Now what I could do.
I could actually go a folder up, go into this Java native image.
Now I'm in this directory which is outside a one level up, right?
And now if I go back, okay, actually, we want to let's close this terminal and then go back to the
other one.
If I say Java, hello?
Well, this doesn't work because JVM says that you tell me to look for a class file with this name.
Hello world.
But I could not find or load the main class.
Hello World.
Java lang class.
Not found exception helloworld.
So basically it's telling me I couldn't find a file, a binary file called Hello Class because when
I launch this application, it tries to search for a class file in this directory.
Right?
So the correct thing to do is tell it to go give it a relative path from current directory, go into
the test and then hello world and you don't add that dot class.
Right.
And again this doesn't work.
Why.
Because.
So the reason this doesn't work is that you cannot specify a path.
So Java tool has a strict rule that you cannot give it a executable in the format of a path.
Java doesn't understand it.
In fact, in your operating system, if you have an executable binary, you can give it a path.
We've already seen this, right?
For example, instead of typing java, you can say a slash library, java virtual machines, JDK 17
being Java, right.
But JVM doesn't do that.
It's not correct for you have to instead of giving a path that leads to your class file, you have to
give it the fully qualified name of the class, which includes the Java packages and Java hierarchy.
I assume you're already familiar with the fully qualified name.
If not, I will discuss this in future lectures.
So when you launch your Java application, you cannot give it a path to the to the to the class file
that has the main method.
That's not correct.
That doesn't work for Java application when you use JVM.
Right.
But for operating system and native executable binaries, that works.
You can give it a relative path, absolute path to a executable binary and the operating system understands
how to execute it.
But that doesn't work for Java application, right?
You have to specify something called the fully qualified name.
Fully qualified name only understands the packages and basically only understands the packages and the
class name.
Right?
So right now this Java class, we didn't put it in any package.
So it does it the fully qualified name is actually the name of the class.
Now you can see the look at the full qualified name.
If you open this with a with a class file we are you see there is no package.
If you put this type or the class file into a package, then the name of the class or the type has a
dot package like package one dot HELLOWORLD.
But right now the name of this type is exactly the name of the class that we define.
All right.
If you don't know what these things are, packages fully qualified name.
I have a full course on becoming the master of Java.
I highly recommend you to go sign up for it and then learn these concepts.
These are very important.
So this doesn't work.
We cannot tell it.
Hey, from this Java native image, go inside the test directory and then execute a binary class that
has hello world.
This doesn't work because Java JVM doesn't understand the operating system path, right?
It doesn't understand the file path.
It understands the Java path which is different from the file path.
Java path is with respect to the class path or directories that are specified in the class file.
So what we need to do, we need to, instead of telling it, go into the test directory and execute
the hello world, which doesn't work.
We have to specify the directory, the test directory as part of the class path.
So dot test.
Right.
So if we launch this now, our application works, which means so we have a class that has a main method,
the name of the class, the fully qualified name is just the name of the class because it doesn't belong
to any package.
And then we tell team to search for this type that has a main method inside this directory.
Now, we could tell it to basically we could have multiple directories and you have to separate them
with colon.
So for example, one thing that we always want to do is also append dot to it.
That means the current directory and the directory in the test directory from current directory, go
inside the test directory.
And what this means again, the concept of the class path is Java looks for the type name, the name
of the type and you cannot give a full path to the class file.
That doesn't work for Java application.
Instead, you specify the directories that the GM can look inside to finding a class file with this
name with the parameter class path.
And usually we have the dot dot means the current directory which is this our Java native image.
Right.
And then the class path separator is colon, always is colon just like the path separator in macros.
And so I'm specifying two directories on my class path when I launch this job application.
One is the current directory, the other one is the direct the test directory which is inside the client
directory.
So when I launch this command, JVM looks for a type called a class file called Hello World.
Inside the current directory it doesn't find it, so it's from Colon Directory.
It goes into the test directory.
It finds that so that it able it is able to execute it.
All right.
Now let's add a little bit of complexity.
What happens if we declare a package?
We say that this class, this type belongs to a Java package, so package my package.
All right.
So you have to tell me with semicolon, what happens now?
Obviously, we changed something in the source code, so we have to go ahead and compile it again.
Right.
So I'm right now I'm inside the Java native image, the source file inside the inside the test.
So I'm going to see the Java compiler go into the test and then hello world Java.
Right.
When you want to compile, obviously you can give you have to specify the file and it can be a relative
path, absolute path, etc..
So this works.
If I open this class file again with the class file view, you see that the name of the type now changes.
Look at the name of the type.
It's the package, dot.
The name of the class.
All right.
This means this helloworld class or type is not a freestanding type.
It has a fully qualified name.
Now, let's see what happens when we try to execute this.
All right.
Now, first of all, I'm going to go back to inside the test folder.
Right.
So we have this.
Hello, world class.
If I say Java Hello World, which we did before.
So this command worked before declaring this class to be belonging to a package.
But now this doesn't work.
Could not find or load main class level because now this class has a fully qualified name.
So what we need to do, we need to specify the fully qualified name.
And that's the package.
My package.
Dot.
Hello.
Fold.
And we don't use the dot class.
Right.
So Java looks into the class path which right now it's the current directory, tries to find a class
file that has this name Hello World and it declares a type that has a fully qualified name my package
and then sees if it has a main method.
If it does, it executed.
Right.
Now, right now, this
this didn't work.
The question is why this didn't work.
So let's see.
Java hyphen CPP.
We specify that dot.
Right.
And then.
The question is so the reason is that.
So my package.
Dot hello world.
Now the reason is that whenever you have a package, Java expects you to have a basically a directory
hierarchy that corresponds to packages.
So I'm going to create a directory, a folder called my package.
Right?
And then what I'm going to do, I'm going to copy this inside this my package.
And then
so and then what we're going to do if I launch Java from the test directory, which is one level up
from this my package directory.
And then this works because whenever your class or type belongs to a package, it tells the JVM from
the current working directory or from whatever directories that are in the class path.
Right.
Right now it's the current directory.
Class path dot dot means just start from the current test whenever you have a fully qualified name.
The way this is interpreted, interpreted for the Java Tool or JVM is that there is supposed to be a
directory folder inside the current directory called my package and then there's supposed to be a class
file called the Hello World inside that directory.
Right?
So if you your class belongs to a package, then there should be a directory hierarchy corresponding
to the packages on your hard disk and your basically folders.
Right.
So packages are a way of organizing them, organizing class files.
But then there has to be a directory hierarchy that basically correspond to, to the packages.
So you cannot just basically.
You cannot just basically have packages without an actual data hierarchy.
And you can see that when your Java application becomes large, this kind of stuff, adding packages
and creating these directories becomes complicated.
That's why we have IDs.
And for programming languages like Java, you really have to use an ID because a lot of these complexities
are automatically managed by an ID.
Now, the last thing that I want to show in this example is that now I compiled my class.
It's it, it belongs to a package and it's correctly put in a directory that has the same name as package,
which is correct.
Everything is great.
But what happens if right now we saw that java my package helloworld works because I'm inside the test
directory.
What if I go inside another directory?
So right now I'm in the Java native.
How do I launch this helloworld application which belongs to a package from another directory?
So in order to do that now I have to tell the Java where the class path is.
I have to if I say Java my package hello world, it's not going to work because my current working directory
doesn't have a directory called my package inside it.
Right.
And if I tell Java and then from current directory go into the test and look for this, this is also
not going to work.
We said that when you launch a Java application using JVM, you cannot specify the path to the class
file.
That doesn't work.
Instead, you have to specify the directory which is in this case is test right as part of the class
path.
So we want to say dot from current directory go inside the test, which means a search for a class file
hello world which is inside a directory in my package and that directory is inside one of the directories
that are specified in the class path right now.
It's test, right.
So this is going to work.
Yes.
So the name of your application is always the fully qualified name.
You cannot specify a path to that class file that that never works for Java.
Instead, you specify the directories that your application needs to launch search for all class files
using basically the class path.
Now the last example that I'm going to show you is which also highlights the importance of class package.
I'm going to delete this.
I'm going to delete this class file.
Right now.
I'm going to create another class folder called Test two, right?
And I am going to create a new let's and then I'm going to let's copy this java hello world into here.
Let's basically.
A rename it.
I'm going to call this car Java.
Right.
And then let's open it.
I'm going to define a class car.
Remember, one of the rules is that if you have a public class in a source file, the name of that class
has to match the name of the source file.
Right.
And what I'm going to do here is that this car is going to have a field int a price, for example,
and I'm going to have a public constructor which takes the int and then the start price equals price.
All right.
And then I'm going to have a two string method.
Let's see if this works source generate to a string.
So we cannot use those features so public.
A string to a string, right?
It doesn't take any parameters and return a car price equals basically a person to have.
A person d for integers and then dot formatted and then a price.
And this dot formatted, I believe was added from JDK 15.
So I'm using JDK 17.
That's totally fine.
If not, you can use a string format, which is a static method.
All right.
So back to Hello World in the main method, what I'm going to do, I am going to now create a car,
object, car, car, new car and pass a price 100 and then do a system dot, dot, print line car.
And we know that this actually calls the two string method to a string method on the car reference.
Right.
Or a variable.
Now let's see how complicated it is to actually get this application to run.
Right now we have two directories, right?
Write test and test two and these two directories have to source files.
Hello, world and car.
And these two source files define public classes.
Right.
And we know that for the public class, the name of the class must match the name of the source file,
which is correct.
None of them belong to any class, any package, which means we don't really need to put them in when
we compile to the class file.
We don't need to put those class files into the directories that correspond to the names of the package.
So these classes don't belong to any package for now.
If they belong to a package, then we have to create directories that have the same names as packages
and then put the class false into those directories.
But for now, for simplicity, I'm just going to basically not add these to any packages.
Now let's see how we're going to launch this.
So first of all, I have to compile the source file.
So I use the Java Sea and note that right now I'm inside the Java Native Image Directory.
I'm going to go to the test and compile the hello world.
And this doesn't work.
Why?
Because this helloworld has a dependency on another type and we know that each type in this case car
compiles to a class file and even at compile time, the JV team needs to understand where this class
file is.
Right.
The Java compiler, not the Java.
So in this case, what we need to do, we need to basically compile the core class first because it
doesn't have any dependency Java C test two and then Java and this compiles fine.
So we get this discard doesn't have any dependency.
So how do we compile this Java hello world that has a type dependency?
So Java C.
What we need to do.
Again, even for the Java compiler, it has to know where to find the types because of the type safety
that the Java provides, which means even at compile time, all the types that you use have to be known
to the compiler.
Otherwise there is no point of allowing allowing the compilation.
And again, you have to specify them on the class path.
So on the class path you tell it, go into the test to write.
And then now this is the class path that the Java compiler can search for in order to see the dependencies
of other classes.
And then now I want to compile this hello world.
So I tell it go to inside the test and then hello world java.
And now this works because when the Java compiler goes to compile this file, which we give it as an
either absolute path or relative path, doesn't matter.
It needs to first understand what this car type is.
And because this car type doesn't belong to any package, so we don't have an import statement.
But then in order for it to understand, the Java compiler needs to first know whether there is a file
called Core Class.
So Java compiler when it tries to compile is helloworld java.
It first needs to make sure that a class file called called court class exists on your hard disk, which
means now you have to go ahead and compile that car java first to create a court class.
And then the next step is that for the Java compiler, if the car class court class file exists, you
have to tell the tell the Java compiler a directory that the Java compiler can search into them to make
sure that that court class exists.
Right.
In order to do that again, you have to specify a specified those directories using the class path.
So we tell the Java compiler, compile this helloworld java file.
But if it has dependencies, search for dependencies inside this directory, it has to.
All right.
We could do, for example, test two and um, and then for example, test, um, actually the, the
class path separator is in test, right?
We could also do that, that it still works fine.
There is no dependency that the Java compiler needs, which is inside the test.
So we were able to successfully compile our source files which were physically in separate or different
directories on our hard disk.
But because they don't belong to a package, you can compile them directly, right?
Now, if I go and try to if I go inside this test directory, right, that's where my head of all classes
you can definitely guess that if I tries to if I try to execute it, know that it doesn't belong to
any package.
So just you specify the name of the class.
It's not going to work.
It actually works up until hitting this line car, right?
Because these two lines execute because they don't have any dependency.
They only depend on the JDK classes that JVM already knows.
The Java Command already knows where to load them, but then it says there is an exception.
In the no class they found error which says I couldn't find a class file called Core Class because you're
trying to use the new operator to create an object of type car.
But JVM says, I need to first understand what this car is and the way JVM understands that it looks
for a class file, a file called the car class.
It couldn't find it.
So what we need to do, we need to specify another directory that has discarded class.
And you can guess that we do it with the basically with the with the class path or hyphen CP parameter.
And we say that from a current directory which is in the test, go one level up, go to the Java native
image, go to inside the test to right.
That's where you find the discarded class and now we're going to launch our application.
The class file could not find or load the helloworld y because when you specify the class path, you
right now I'm launching this Helloworld event for the Helloworld Java searches inside the class path
directory, so you should always add the current directory if your class is inside the current directory.
So dot colon, which means current directory which has my class file and another directory which goes
to level up with respect to the current directory.
And then it goes inside test two.
All right.
And we shouldn't have any spaces.
So right now there are two directories that are on my on my class path.
One is the current directory Y because my hello world class, which is the entry point to my application
which has the main method is inside the current directory, this test directory.
That's why I specified dot.
But then this helloworld class has a dependency on the car and the car class file class is inside the
test two directory and I specify a relative path from the current directory from the this test which
means go one level up and then go inside the test two directory.
And now my application works fine because at lunchtime JVM can find a class file called Hello World
Class.
It has a main method, it executes that.
And inside that there is another type car.
So JVM can also find a class A file called the court class.
So it can also understand what the car type is.
All right.
So I hope you really enjoy this lecture.
I my goal was to really go into depth of what's going on.
And in the next lectures, when we compiled this Java application to native executable binary, you
see that there is no concept called class path and executing native binaries are easier in terms of
you don't need to deal with kind of class path stuff, right?
So please do stay tuned and I'll see the next one.